---
title: Scenarios
date: 2021-09-12
summary: Sample scenarios for Flagrant Factions
weight: 20
---

<!-- vale Flagrant.Headings = NO -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-duplicate-heading -->

Each scenario describes how to deploy Companies, who takes the first turn, and its conclusion
conditions. Some scenarios also have special rules that govern them.

## 0. Pitched Battle

### Deployment

The attackers deploy within 12” of one edge, and defenders deploy within 12” of the opposite edge.
Each side deploys one Group at a time, alternating between sides until both sides have deployed all
the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play.

### First Turn

Attackers may choose to go first or allow the defender to go first.

### Conclusion Conditions

When fewer than 5 Groups remain across all Companies, roll 1d6 at the beginning of each subsequent
turn. If the result is higher than the number of remaining Groups across all Companies, this is the
final turn.

Add up the points value of enemy Groups Routed before the end of the game—the player with the
highest count gains 5VP. In a tie, all players tied for the highest count gain 3VP.

## 1. Ambush

### Deployment

<!-- vale Microsoft.Wordiness = NO -->

The defenders deploy all of their Groups within 24” of the center point, then the attackers deploy
all of their groups anywhere on the table, but no closer than 6” to any defending group.

<!-- vale Microsoft.Wordiness = YES -->

### First Turn

Attackers go first.

### Special Rules

Defenders may voluntarily Move their Groups off of any table edge. These Groups do not count as
Routed, but have instead Escaped. Defender Groups forced to Retreat off the table also count as
Escaped instead of Routed.

### Conclusion Conditions

When either side has no Groups remaining in play, the skirmish ends immediately. Defenders gain 2 VP
for every friendly Group that Escaped and 1 VP for every enemy Group Routed. Attackers gain 1 VP for
every enemy Group whose FS is below its starting value at the end of the game (even if they Escape
off the table), and 2 VP for every enemy Group Routed.

## 2. Retreat

### Deployment

The defenders deploy 12--18” from one edge, and the attackers deploy within 8” of the same edge. Each
side places one Group at a time, alternating between sides until both sides have deployed all the
Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play.

### First Turn

Defenders may choose to go first or allow the attackers to go first. After deciding, the defender
must immediately test Resolve for every Group they deployed. Groups that fail the Resolve test begin
play Shaken.

### Special Rules

Defenders may voluntarily Move their Groups off the table edge opposite from the deployment edge.
These Groups do not count as Routed, but have instead Escaped. Defender Groups forced to Retreat off
of that edge also count as Escaped instead of Routed. Groups that Retreat off any other edge are
Routed, as normal.

### Conclusion Conditions

When either side has no Groups remaining in play, the skirmish ends immediately. Defenders gain 3 VP
for each of their Groups that Escape. Attackers gain 2 VP for every enemy Group Routed—they gain 4
VP instead for each enemy Captain's Group Routed.

## 3. Raid

### Deployment

The defenders deploy their Captain's Group and up to half of their remaining Groups within 24” of
the center point (leaving the remaining Groups out of play at the beginning of play). Then, the
attackers deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play within 12”
of any edges. Defenders then place 6 Asset Tokens (representing barrels of wine, prize cattle,
sacred stones, etc) within 24” of the center point.

### First Turn

Attackers may choose to go first or allow the defenders to go first.

### Special Rules


Any defending Group may attempt to activate on a 6+ to bring a not-yet-deployed Group into play
within 4”. The defending Captain's Group may attempt to activate on a 4+ to bring a not-yet-deployed
Group into play within 8”. Defending Groups cannot pick up Asset Tokens.

Any attacking Group in contact with an Asset Token and not in melee may attempt to activate on a 5+
to pick up the Asset. On a result of 12, the Group picks up the Asset and may immediately attempt to
Move. Groups carrying an Asset Token Move at half their normal speed and may carry the Asset off any
table edge. A Group may only hold one Asset Token at a time.

### Conclusion Conditions

When either side has no Groups remaining in play, the skirmish ends immediately. The defenders gain
2 VP for each enemy Group Routed, and 1 VP for each Asset Token still on the table (carried by a
Group or not). The attackers gain 3 VP for each Asset Token they took off the table.

## 4. Sortie

### Deployment

The attackers deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play, as
well as three Siege Tokens representing siege works, at least 6” from any edge and no closer than
30” from the center point. Then the defenders deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field
at the beginning of play within 24” of the center point.

### First Turn

Defenders go first.

### Special Rules

Any defending Group in contact with a Siege Token and not in melee may attempt to activate on a 6+
to destroy the Siege Token.

### Conclusion Conditions

<!-- vale Microsoft.Wordiness = NO -->

When either side has no Groups remaining in play, or when the defenders move all of their remaining
Groups within 24” of the center and declare an end to their sortie, play ends immediately. Defenders
gain 1 VP for every enemy Group Routed, 2 VP for every enemy engine Group Routed, and 4 VP for every
Siege Token destroyed. Attackers gain 2 VP for every enemy Group Routed, 1 VP for each of their
engine Groups that was not Routed, and 3 VP for every Siege Token that was not destroyed.

<!-- vale Microsoft.Wordiness = YES -->

## 5. Extraction

### Deployment

The attackers deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play at
least 18” from the center point. Then the defenders deploy one Group (the Extractees) within 6” of
the center point, and all the remaining Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of
play within 12” of any edge.

### First Turn

The defenders must go first.

### Special Rules

If the Extractees Move or Retreat off the table, they have Escaped, and are not Routed.

### Conclusion Conditions

Play ends when the Extractees Escape or are Routed. Defenders gain 6 VP if the Extractees Escape and
1VP for each enemy Group Routed. Attackers gain 4 VP if the Extractees were Routed, and 2 VP for
each other enemy Group Routed.

## 6. Ritual

### Deployment

The defenders deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play within
24” of the center, and designate one of their Groups as the Bodyguards of the ritualists. Then the
attackers deploy all the Groups they intend to have on the field at the beginning of play within 12”
of any edges.

### First Turn

The attackers may choose to go first or let the defenders go first.

### Special Rules

The Bodyguards may not Move. If they would be forced to Retreat, they lose 1 FS instead. At the
beginning of each of the defender's turns, roll 2d6—if the result is less than the current turn
number, then the ritual is completed.

### Conclusion Conditions

Play ends when the ritual is completed or the bodyguard Group is Routed. The defenders gain 6 VP if
the ritual is completed, and 1 VP for each enemy Group Routed. The attackers gain 4 VP if the
bodyguard Group is Routed.
