---
title: "Bynames"
description: "Traits Groups gain and lose by their actions and Glory."
draft: false
weight: 40
---

## Bynames

Groups gain and lose Bynames by their deeds in battle. Bynames are special traits that fall under
three categories: Champion Bynames, Group Bynames, and Ship Bynames. Each Byname has conditions for
earning it and losing it.

Bynames are given by their friends an enemies. They are only given to Group's whose Glory makes them
memorable. If a Group loses a Byname because they no longer meet the Glory requirements, they may
regain it by fulfilling the conditions again. If a Group loses a Byname because of their actions in
battle, they never regain it.

### Champion Bynames

#### Beautiful

Minimum Glory: 10

Gain this Byname by fighting in melee in 5+ Skirmishes without ever being Bloodied in any Skirmish.
Lose this Byname by becoming Bloodied. +1 FS for every Skirmish this Group fights in melee without
losing any FS and +1 T.

#### Berserker

Minimum Glory: 25

Gain this Byname by Attacking 12+ enemy Groups with more FS and Glory. Lose this Byname by refusing
to Attack an enemy Group when capable. +1 T and gain the Unfeeling and Self-Destruct traits. When
you Self-Destruct, instead of Routing, you become Reckless against all Groups, including friendly
ones. If you fail to activate to Attack while Reckless, you fall unconscious.

#### Cloak Dancer

Minimum Glory: 20

Gain this Byname by killing 3+ enemies in Duels. Lose this Byname by refusing a Duel or
fighting 2+ Skirmishes in a row without Duelling. Reroll failed activations when Duelling and +1
dice when rolling to hit in a duel for every enemy killed while Duelling.

#### Shiptaker

Minimum Glory: 20

Gain this Byname by Boarding an enemy Ship Group alone 3+ times. Lose this Byname by failing to
capture a Ship Group you Boarded alone or with a Boarding Party. Roll +1 dice to hit when Boarding.

#### Troll

Minimum Glory: 40

Gain this byname by being Attacked 6+ times while Bloodied by a Group with more FS and Attacking an
enemy Group that isn't Bloodied 6+ times while you are Bloodied. Lose this Byname by Routing. Gain
the Terrifying and Vicious traits, and +1 FS every time you are Bloodied.

#### Witch-Breaker

Minimum Glory: 15

Gain this Byname by killing at least 3 casters. Lose this Byname by refusing to Attack a caster when
capable. Reroll failed tests against magic, gain the Caster-Bane trait, and count 6s twice when
rolling to hit a caster.

### Group Bynames

#### Berserk Bane

Minimum Glory: 40

Gain this Byname by killing 3+ Champions. Lose this Byname by Retreating from a Champion or refusing
a Duel with one. When fighting a Champion, +1 per slain Champion when activating to Attack and +1
dice when rolling to hit.

#### Boar's Tusk

Minimum Glory: 25

Gain this Byname by breaking 1+ Shieldwall in 5 different Skirmishes. Lose this Byname by failing to
break a Shieldwall after Attacking it. When Attacking a Group in a Shieldwall as an individual
Group, reroll failed tests to activate and count hits twice. When Attacking a Group in a Shieldwall
as part of a Shieldwall, +1 dice per Shieldwall broken.

#### Cloud of Steel

Minimum Glory: 15

Gain this Byname by Routing 1+ Group by Shooting in 3 different Skirmishes. Lose this Byname by
Shooting the same Group twice without reducing their FS. When Shooting, +1 dice to hit per Skirmish
in which they Routed a Group by Shooting.

#### Hounds

Minimum Glory: 20

Gain this Byname by passing 6+ Resolve tests while Bloodied. Lose this Byname by failing a Resolve
test while not Bloodied. This Group ignores penalties for facing an enemy Group with more Glory.
This Group never refuses to fight and never surrenders.

#### Swiftfeet

Minimum Glory: 15

Gain this Byname by Moving 3+ times without failure in 5 Skirmishes. Lose this Byname by failing to
activate to Move twice in a row. This Group may immediately test to activate again after Moving.

#### Unbreakable

Minimum Glory: 25

Gain this Byname by being Attacked 5+ times in a Shieldwall without breaking formation or failing a
Resolve test. Lose this Byname by breaking formation while in a Shieldwall. +1 T and reroll hits
when defending an Attack as part of a Shieldwall.

### Ship Bynames

#### Blood Otter

Minimum Glory: 20

Gain this Byname by Boarding and seizing enemy Ship Groups in 3+ Skirmishes on a river. Lose this
Byname by failing to seize a Boarded enemy Ship on a river. Ignore the river's Drift Rate when
Attacking to Board an enemy Ship Group and roll +1 dice to hit when Boarding on a river.

#### Boarder's Bane

Minimum Glory: 25

Gain this Byname by repelling 5+ Boarding Parties. Lose this Byname if the Crewing Groups Mutiny
due to enemy Boarding or Retreat from an enemy Ship Group trying to Board. +1 T and reroll misses
when defending against a Boarding Party.

#### Plankbreaker

Minimum Glory: 30

Gain this Byname by Ramming and sinking 3+ enemy Ship Groups. Lose this Byname if the Ship Group
fights 2+ naval Skirmishes in a row without Ramming an enemy Ship Group.

#### Sea Eagle

Minimum Glory: 40

Gain this Byname by capturing 1+ enemy Ship Group in 5+ naval Skirmishes and Boarding 3+ enemy Ship
Groups with more Crewing Groups. Lose this Byname by refusing to Board an enemy Ship Group when
capable.

#### Stormrider

Minimum Glory: 15

Gain this Byname by capturing or sinking an enemy Ship Group in 3+ naval Skirmishes in a gale or
storm. Lose this Byname by failing to activate twice in a row during a naval Skirmish in a gale or
storm. Reroll activation tests and misses when fighting in a gale or storm.

#### Waveflame

Minimum Glory: 20

Gain this Byname by setting 6+ enemy Ship Groups on fire and causing 3+ to sink from burning. Lose
this Byname by failing to set an enemy Ship Group on fire in 3+ consecutive naval Skirmishes. Enemy
Ship Groups reroll tests to douse flames started by this Group.
